moz_forecasting/mobile_ad_tiles/README.md, before:

# Mobile Ads Tiles Revenue Forecast

## Overview
This flow forecasts the number of clicks and revenue on mobile, distinguishing between those from Amazon ads and those from other sources. Rather than forecasting everything on its own, it scales the KPI mobile DAU forecast to get the desired metrics. Specifically, the inventory forecast is combined with fill rates, to get future impressions. These are then used to produce revenue estimates.  There are three primary forecasted values for each ad source created by this pipeline:

- `est_value_amazon_qdau`/`est_value_other_qdau`:  forecasted daily active users for amazon and other ads
- `amazon_clicks`/`other_clicks`: Forecasted clicks for amazon and non-amazon ads
- `amazon_revenue`/`other_revenue`: the forecasted revenue of impressions

The output table is indexed by country, month (`submission_month`).

### `inventory_forecast` derivation
The idea behind the inventory forecast is to execute the following steps:
- **take the (global) monthly dau forecast**:  This currently lives in [docker-etl/kpi_forecasting](https://github.com/mozilla/docker-etl/tree/main/jobs/kpi-forecasting).  The median, 90th percentile and 10th percentile aggregates are used.
- **turn that into a country-level dau forecast by multiplying a factor representing the fraction of the dau represented by a set of desired countries**:  The country-level dau is obtained from the `active_users_aggregates` table.  A by-month and by-country ratio for the past year is created in `self.dau_by_country["eligible_share_country"]`, which is then turned into a country-level value by taking the average of the ratio
- **distinguish between Amazon and non-Amazon impressisions**: This is done by taking the fraction of users with impressions from each category from the `events_aggregates` table.  Occurs first as `self.aggregate_data['p_amazon']` and `self.aggregate_data['p_other']` for amazon and non-amazon respectively.  These are aggregated to the country level by taking the average.
- **get clicks per dau by advertiser** these are obtained from the `events_aggregates` table, occuring as `self.aggregate_data['amazon_clicks_per_qdau']` and `self.aggregate_data['other_clicks_per_qdau']` for amazon and non-amazon respectively.  These are aggregated to the country level by taking the average.
- **get country-level cpcs**
- **get estimated dau by country and advertiser**: This is the product of the dau forecast, the dau ratio by country, and the ratio of amazon/non-amazon impressions to total impressions. 
- **get forecasted clicks**: This the the product of the dau forcast and the country-level clicks per dau ratio.
- **get forecasted revenue**: this is the prodcut of the forecasted clicks and the country-level cpcs

## History and Changes
This pipeline was derived from [this notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1qOsjCY8G6mM91FU3ZiOfsSZJRi5CpLOj).  Several major changes were made to the large query from the notebook, which is broken into several smaller queries here:
- Instead of using `mozfun.bits28.active_in_range(browser_dau.days_seen_bits, 0, 1)` applied to the unified_metrics table, the `daily_users` column from the `active_users_aggregates` table is used
- Originally the time period where tiles were experimental and rolled out to only 25% of the population is included.  This is removed here to simplify the query.  This also effects the filters that determine elgibility in the US, using the post-experiment date of Sept 20 2022 and Oct 4 2022 of Android and iOS respectively.

Commit message:

Consolidate mobile desktop tiles (#7)
* initial commit, matches within 2%

* clean up kpi pull and remove tables from big pull

* replaced forecast date with variable

* remove unused suggest stuff

* remove more desktop references

* remove experiment stuff

* cleaned up client_counts query

* use derived table for population cte

* initial commit, matches within 2%

* clean up kpi pull and remove tables from big pull

* replaced forecast date with variable

* remove unused suggest stuff

* remove more desktop references

* remove experiment stuff

* cleaned up client_counts query

* use derived table for population cte

* reformatted query

* broke up big query

* cleanup kpi pull and update var names

* linting

* acutal merge"

* config file

* added write step and added README

* updated to allow test output location

* add back excluded

* fix config

* temporarily add test step

* add test for mobile

* remove unnecessary filter and comments

* debugging generalized kpi in adtiles

* generalizing active_users_aggregates pull

* consolidate kpi forecast in adtilesforecast and get aggreement within 10%

* updating mobile

* finished standardizing dau forecast between mobile and tiles

* linting

* updated documentation

* add total columns

* merge main

* remove test step, merge main and clean up query to remove CURRENT_DATE

* add observed months parameter to control lookback size

* Updated readme

* updated README

* clean up inventory query

* removed unused function and utilized as_index arg in groupbys

* linting and parenthesis

moz_forecasting/mobile_ad_tiles/README.md, after:

# Mobile Ads Tiles Revenue Forecast

## Overview
This flow forecasts the number of clicks and revenue on mobile, distinguishing between those from Amazon ads and those from other sources. Rather than forecasting everything on its own, it scales the KPI mobile DAU forecast to get the desired metrics. Specifically, the inventory forecast is combined with fill rates, to get future impressions. These are then used to produce revenue estimates.  There are three primary forecasted values for each ad source created by this pipeline:

- `est_value_amazon_qdau`/`est_value_other_qdau`:  forecasted daily active users for amazon and other ads
- `amazon_clicks`/`other_clicks`: Forecasted clicks for amazon and non-amazon ads
- `amazon_revenue`/`other_revenue`: the forecasted revenue of impressions

The output table is indexed by country, month (`submission_month`).

### `inventory_forecast` derivation
The idea behind the inventory forecast is to execute the following steps:
1. **get by-country dau forecast** The by-country dau forecast is obtained by multipling the global dau forecast by two scalar factors, a `share_by_market` factor and an `elgbility_factor`:
   - global dau forecast: The global dau forecast comes from the table `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry_derived.kpi_forecasts_v0`.  We use the monthly value, which is the cumulative DAU for the month.
   - `share_by_market`:  The purpose of this factor is to convert the global forcast to a by-country forecast.  It is derived by taking the monthly cumulative DAU from `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.active_users_aggregates` for a given country and dividing it by the total across all countries, yielding the fraction of the total dau contributed by that country.  This is then averaged over the number of months of past data specified in `observed_months` in the config file to get a scalar value for each country.
   -  `elgibility_factor`: The elgibility is specified for each product (IE tiles) individually for mobile and desktop as a sql function in the config file for each flow.  It is determined by which app version that the product became available in each country.  The monthly cumulative number of eligibile, active users **within a country** is calculated using this function on `moz-fx-data-shared-prod.telemetry.active_users_aggregates`, and divided by the total number of active users **within a country** to get a monthly elgbility factor for that country.  These are then averaged over the number of months specified in `observed_months` in the config to get a scalar value for each country.
2. **turn that into country-level inventory by multiplying a factor representing the ratio of the inventory to the dau by country**: The country-level inventory by month is obtained from the derived table `desktop_tiles_forecast_inputs`.  It is first stored in `self.dau_by_country["total_inventory_1and2"]`.  The ratio between this and the by month country-level dau is taken and averaged over a year to get a time-independent value.
3. **distinguish between Amazon and non-Amazon impressisions**: This is done by taking the fraction of users with impressions from each category from the `events_aggregates` table.  Occurs first as `self.aggregate_data['p_amazon']` and `self.aggregate_data['p_other']` for amazon and non-amazon respectively.  These are calculated for each country for the month preceeding the forecast month.
4. **get clicks per dau by advertiser** these are obtained from the `events_aggregates` table, occuring as `self.aggregate_data['amazon_clicks_per_qdau']` and `self.aggregate_data['other_clicks_per_qdau']` for amazon and non-amazon respectively.  These are calculated for each country for the month preceeding the forecast month.
5. **get country-level cpcs**
6. **get estimated dau by country and advertiser**: This is the product of the dau forecast, the dau ratio by country, and the ratio of amazon/non-amazon impressions to total impressions. 
7. **get forecasted clicks**: This the the product of the dau forcast and the country-level clicks per dau ratio.
8. **get forecasted revenue**: this is the prodcut of the forecasted clicks and the country-level cpcs

## History and Changes
This pipeline was derived from [this notebook](https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1qOsjCY8G6mM91FU3ZiOfsSZJRi5CpLOj).  Several major changes were made to the large query from the notebook, which is broken into several smaller queries here:
- Instead of using `mozfun.bits28.active_in_range(browser_dau.days_seen_bits, 0, 1)` applied to the unified_metrics table, the `daily_users` column from the `active_users_aggregates` table is used
- Originally the time period where tiles were experimental and rolled out to only 25% of the population is included.  This is removed here to simplify the query.  This also effects the filters that determine elgibility in the US, using the post-experiment date of Sept 20 2022 and Oct 4 2022 of Android and iOS respectively.
